VIBRATIONS THROUGH STOKE 

// Gong video installation Video, Saturday 24th March 2018, Two Doors Studio // 

I first met John Shapter though Jaquie Brassington [1]. Jacquie was running mediation workshops in the studio and mentioned that John was looking for a place to permanently house his growing collections of gongs. Since been given a surprise birthday present of a gong bath he'd become hooked and became fascinated by all things gong.

He ran a small intimate series of gong baths in the studio. The truth of the matter is that gongs are heavy and they are not easy to carry upstairs. They also work better in big rooms. I would have loved to have a gong master as in the building but the practicalities were not stacking up, the stars we not aligning for me.

Then one day, quite by chance, John and his wife June were driving though Stoke. June spotted a round window in a building. A series of Ah-Ah! moments passed and today the place is home to the Chiron Institute [2]. 

Calum Smail, by then a tenant renting the gong-room-that-wasn't-to-be, was looking to make a documentary video to add to his portfolio of commercial videos and I suggested that John and June's story was one I'd want to tell if I was still running a what's on guide to Stoke. 

"If I was running one today", I thought to myself, "I'd want to make a film... Bomb the Movie !!!" 

My brother Ned and I talked about that in the Peugot 205 we drove round Stoke delivering magazine, hunting down stories and selling adverts.

And so it came to pass. I listened to a few Melvin Bragg podcasts, Calum and I got in his car and we went up Stoke to find the Chiron. If you can find Sainsburys in Stoke you can't miss it. You'd NEVER imagine what was inside.

The video is being presented as a video installation in its entirety for the first time at the Divergence "Pilot Episode" on Saturday 24th March at Two Doors Studio



LINKS

[1] https://www.facebook.com/jacquie.brassington 
[2] Chiron Institute: https://www.chironuk.com/
